>> Kyle Simpson: I thought where we might
stop or finish or come to a conclusion for
this workshop would be to kind of come
full circle back to the beginning.
And I deliberately didn't start
the workshop by talking about this
topic because I wanted us to have
had more experience with node.
But as you write more and more node,
you're gonna more and more bugs, more and
more problems.
And you're gonna face
the challenges of trying to debug
in a command line environment.
And you'll quickly see that it
can get very difficult to debug.
So I wanted to just end by showing you
a quick example of how you can use
The Chrome DevTools debugging remotely for
your node process.
So here, we have our EX7 process that we
were working on, in the previous exercise.
And what I wanna do is basically insert
a little bit of a bug into this program.
That's gonna create and exception and
I'm gonna run it with the DevTools,
listening.
And we'll see that when the exception is
thrown it actually pops up that exception
over in the Chrome DevTools and pauses our
node process so that we can debug things.
So that's an example of how you can
use more sophisticated debugging if
you're a basic console log type of
debugging is not working for you.
So just kind of trying to
come up with an example here.
What I'm gonna do is basically
set up a counter here.
So I'm gonna say var x = 0,
and each time we do this thing
I'm gonna setup,
I'm gonna increment it by ++.
And after I've spun up
these child processes,
what I'm gonna do is,
right here, let me do it here.
>> Kyle Simpson: What I'm gonna do is,
if x has gotten over a certain number,
I'm just gonna throw an exception.
And that way, just sort of artificially,
we can see that thing happening.
So if x is greater than five, then
let's call a function that doesn't exist
like food, which will throw an exception.
We'll see that in our debugger, okay.
So the way that you do this is twofold.
First of all you need to open up,
and I'm using Chrome here.
I've opened up, you do chrome://inspect,
and it automatically appends
here to the devices.
We don't see a remote target listed yet,
but it is trying to listen on local host
for a sort of, by convention, a specific
port that it's going to listen for.
By the way, this link here where it says
Open dedicated DevTools for Node, I don't
know what that is and I've never been
able to get that to do anything useful.
So maybe that's like an experiment
that they're thinking about.
But we're not gonna use that one despite
the fact that that looks like what
we're using.
It's gonna pop up a link for
us to inspect once we start our
process in a listening mode.
So we'll come back to this
screen in just a moment.
But I'm gonna go over here and
I'm gonna start up that node,
and I'm gonna put --inspect.
That flag on the node process is gonna
tell it to go ahead and expose itself,
It's listening protocol
on that specific port.
And then Chrome DevTool,
since it's listening on that port's
immediately gonna pick up on it.
And start being able to inspect that.
So I'm gonna click this and
I'm gonna move over here and
you'll notice that we now have an inspect.
So we can now actually see in our Chrome
Devtools what is happening and boom,
there was our reference.
There was our FOO reference there.
And we would have been able to,
for example, tell it,
let's go back and tell it to.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm gonna close it and
restart.
And then we'll tell it to
like pause on exception.
Okay, hopefully 12 gives me a long enough
time to make all of the settings so
that we can see this happened,
let's inspect.
Let's go to the sources tab.
I've got Paul's on exception.
And I've got the checkmark.
So now,
we should see here in just a few moments,
it actually pause on our exception.
[LAUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: There we go.
We have succeeded.
We have an exception that it paused
on in the middle of our node program.
And if we switch back over here you'll
notice that it is literally paused to
the node process.
It didn't like crash it or something.
It's literally paused the node process.
And we can do stepping through it.
We can do watch expressions,
all of the things that we
normally need to do in debugging.
But now we're actually debugging
remotely a node process.
So this is an incredibly powerful tool.
I'll be honest with you that with the
extra hoops that you have to jump through,
of like starting it and
then going and clicking to,
because you can't really get
a dedicated window for it.
Sometimes it can get a little
bit annoying to deal with.
There is a program called NDB which
came out, which is basically a packaging
of Chrome where when it opens,
it's just the developer tools from Chrome.
And they kind of animate some of
this stuff a little bit better.
I wasn't able to get that installed on
my system when I was preparing for this.
But a lot of people swear by NDB is that
it might be a little bit more successful
of a route for you.
But the few times that I've really needed
to do some kind of deeper debugging or
even memory profiling or
something like that.
I've been able to use this
remote debugging from Chrome and
it's worked pretty well.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's go ahead and
let it finish itself.
>> Kyle Simpson: I guess it's gonna
run into an exception and finish, and
then it crashed the process.